all right five pass let's get started
welcome everyone to this week's All
Hands let's take a look at the agenda
all right we are recording I believe
this recording excellent so if anybody
has agenda items please put them in now
at the end if possible so that we can
cover them otherwise maybe that a lots
of agenda items for us today so that's
good so asking can you talk about well
let's get started with the first one
read talking about you could rely
specification
I don't yeah yeah we had five minutes I
have I what I mean it um I had Inc five
minutes is enough you can set me up to
five minutes so hi everyone I have
published a new version of the secret
relay specification basically tune
iteration over the old one that call SS
all the comments that were made across
multiple PRS and multiple issues and
like it was getting very hard to really
get a good idea of what the thing had to
be and like doing it so synchronously
was not working because there will be
multiple people talking over the spec in
multiple channels so what I did as we
agree the last week was okay I was just
like take the responsibility and call s
all of them myself
and create a new PR that is clean and I
closed all the other issues and I point
all of those issues to this PR and then
everyone do a review on this PR I think
we are pretty close like we probably are
like 95% about getting the real expect
finished at least I don't find any major
issues and I currently other people that
have reviewed didn't find it as well
nevertheless I welcome everyone to like
really good do a fine-grained review
make sure we are not losing any edge
case make sure that we are not missing
it was already thought and that we can
incorporate it all in the spec because
like once the spec is merged then like
people should be able to implement it
from that specification hope this was
clear handing up everyone let me know if
you have questions thank you yeah yeah
it's really good to coalesce those into
one place because I know that I got that
five minutes on five Reapers for
relation to discussions I could work so
I was staying out of really spec
discussions I think I might try giving
like giving it 12 wait and try to like
see what's unclear for me and this way
this way like as people Wars or
something they start to miss the to the
details right mm-hm yeah exactly like we
might be already so used to talk about
certain things about relay that we need
to explain some of the bit The Bacchae
necessary for the people to understand
also it is a spec and we currently have
several thousand specs that are
scattered over the IP perspex repo and
no equilibrio specs you can see this
pack as kind of like a defeat style from
like iterations from previous spec
satire roads if there is something that
you don't think it's clear from the
structure of how the spec is laid out if
there is something that we think we did
best it's a motor spec which point it to
be because we can always like
restructure and I get some points
there's enough to be now but at some
point in time we should find this
structure for writing these technical
specs for instrumentations that suits
multiple needs and not just like f1 spec
template per spec so kuba I know that
you have written the Private Network
spec compare those two I see what you
could take to the Private Network specs
and what you can take from the permanent
effects to this real a spec that will be
AK series
all right 1r than that it might be very
useful to start collecting facts we like
especially also specs that we read read
that are not written by us so that we
have a place to search from because
there are quite a lot of people on the
internet writing specs and so it might
be useful to search on those to converge
onto a general spec style every we want
to go for in the near future
yeah there's definitely a lot to learn
from out there and there's a lot of like
formal templates like RFC so I would say
like now we have the opportunity to
actually like rethink that a little bit
until like there will be parts of the
spec special we have the pro
multi-format plans that will be
published under some like standard
bodies and we will want to follow their
format but like if we have this hybrid
between like formal specification and
specification for implementers we can
experiment a little bit and I try what C
works best especially with the whole
community the whole ecosystem in get up
but but yeah I agree that we should like
make the best we can from others cool
thank you
any other comments sauce all right next
one I guess the p2p dates read here you
have lots of new things for us
oh yeah so by the way someone like has
items to the agenda please add them
between mine to the day I don't give a
goo goodness okay so I've been updating
like GFC could appear at before we
cousin I've had a model where we had
like this base class where you could
extend the base class and implement your
own p2p bundle but that was not clear to
everyone and it required a lot of
maintenance because like every time you
updated something on the WIPP
peer-to-peer tree now you have to plate
all the bundles the people polish has
modules and what we realized was well it
is probably better to just like make one
single entry point where people can
create examples they can read the whole
documentation they can read how to X in
the boys class and they can see the
tests like the tests instead of like the
rest being on each of the bundles like
the desks are all on this base class and
I basically there's a test implement
their own bundles and like testings
individually and together I PCPs with
remixers I transfer system markers with
the channels and so on so now if you go
to let me hear you scream
will you my screen so if you go to the
Jess we preview period problem can you
see my screen fine here like this right
here
like as a fresh look like you can see
the new logo which I really like it has
like a background like explains like
while EPP exists in the first place
it has pointers like two full bundles
like the ones that I pianist uses still
in explains how to create a base I can
also extend the base class I was just
speaking about and like you can
physically bring your own modules here
we are bringing TCP and WebSockets like
we are adding them and like we are using
this PD stream Luxor and SEC is the
decrypted Channel and then like you have
all of the API call the commutation like
after you extend the voice class these
are the primitives you get with which
peer-to-peer
start and stop dial and gap 186
it's a cycle here peer routing content
routing protocol marketing and so on if
these are like all new terms to you one
of the things I work a lot especially
during this weekend was getting really
nice examples so if you go now to weep
YouTube here examples and tutorials
there's a lot here and you're like this
kind of like walkthrough so what is it
transport and why do we need to support
multiple transports and I'll do you
create a bundle with more than one
transport and like all of these
tutorials always my steps and explain
what you have to do there's a lot of
information here to digest and actually
I always have the final version of that
example so that you can like run it and
learn from the point of example yourself
so there is like transport there is
protocol and stream axing there is
increased communications so like oh and
why do we have SE cay there we speared
Cauvery somewhere okay there you go
your discovery so this explains how to
use the bootstrap how to use multicast
dns and also gives you a hint that you
cannot find
discord mechanisms like the WebRTC
transport and also the DHT module there
is two more examples I'm working on for
publish/subscribe and for the peer
content rodding you should see these
ones being merged soon like this week
and the other thing I also did was
create like a general update the things
that we call typically the catalogs so
we peer-to-peer hasn't seen a catalog in
a while but now we are like a log like
from yesterday and basically gives you I
can run through all the things I just
explained here there's also a reddit
account the preacher contacts been like
for a while but now it's like more
actives the single entry point the
tutorials what we are working on and
yeah this is this is it I think I would
wave nighter it is like maintenance it
produced Mendez along because now like I
just have to write test once here and I
need to just update things I'm
definitely definitely for it it's
flatter and yeah
we love to hear everyone's thoughts like
please check it out and try the examples
and yeah like I think it's like a very
useful tool to actually teach networks
to other people like if they are not
familiar with like this comes on like
peer discovery and peer routing and
transports and so on and I think the
examples make a good job of like
explaining why they are necessary why
they exist in the differences and so on
map so you know of anyone outside of
this like with PDP team who has done
their own limitations based on that the
previous version we had to implement
your own stack the all Matt you are
cutting a little bit but if I well no
you are totally off Matt I believe we
lost not well I think I managed to
understand what was the question
so if I understood correctly Matt was
asking if there was other communities
other groups other projects that created
their own with peer-to-peer bundle to
use in their own application oh man your
back is your connection better now
I don't know it's supposed to be 200
megabits I don't know what's going on
probably the Wi-Fi usually I can I guess
are from another yeah yeah I'm back now
sorry I was just like repeating your
question if I understood correctly you
are asking if there were other projects
other communities that built their only
peer to peer bundle without these pieces
right yeah and are you aware of anyone
outside of the Liberty division using
this stuff yeah so for example the
Korean team has been playing with the
p2p for a while there is computer dial
that uses ipfs lashley peer-to-peer
pub/sub to do I you T
computing strategies and what I've been
seeing is yes people are using the
peer-to-peer but they are not
necessarily building their own bundles
it's more like will just like use ideas
because it's the one that runs in OGS
and the one that runs in a browser like
the one that has all the features that I
need so how'd you like to use that one
and not worry about building my own and
yeah that works well why not
maite all right so the switch doesn't
actually disrupt anyone who is relying
on the p2p no I could maintain yeah yeah
and Ike we we have checked the
dependence to NPM so NPM you can see we
depending on your module if you have
published something to do outside world
and like so far like the the bundle the
previous one octave works like we have
issues a notification and back on the
Remy now so like if people were using
that in a private way they will see that
now they have to to migrate over and a
migration is just like doing a bunch of
endgame installs and copying one file
like it is of this rapid actually we
didn't change we didn't do any breaking
changes in API sense
cool yeah right
all right Levi was the PGP updates so
figuring basic figure into nice shape
next up to be
we are first from you in a long time so
you're talking about JSF GFS reason 24
that's 25 I believe alright yeah
can you go next I see that you edit a
lot at items if you want to go next
please
because I have another one opportunity
fun um let's do this one and you get no
gold Ashura okay see okay so I announce
today the like as you might be familiar
by now when we release just a PFS we
kind of like always do an issue like
describing what is going to be released
like a pre announcement so that people
can I can time to test it out tell us if
they found on the bugs and and just like
get the community ready for for then for
the next iteration the next version is
0:25 and it's more like a maintenance
release than actually like a breaking
change in terms of API or just like that
adds a lot of features there there is
one significant change which is if you
are using WebRTC in node.js so why are
kissing the browser will continue
working as it was working previously but
if you were using it in node.js you now
have to like plug in your own WebRTC
team and we like to really explain tops
to that and the reason why we have to do
that is because wherever you see in
node.js when means that you have to
install a native dependency and that
makes it really hard for some like
runtimes to like catch a thief is
running for example Linux or Windows we
have been also like trying to get the
experience of the electron users using
GPS on the main process so not the
browser process again like the browser
process is always fine this is just like
the note GS part which requires this
dependency the selective dependency
which is very alpha it is a woman that
more tricky and that you have to go to
more steps but again it's under AMI and
you can always open any ship channel
running
promise there is also an issue with all
of this let me share my screen again
there's also an issue like losing all
this applet there you go yeah so sundar
really this year I lied what's going on
the web RTC situation I was just talking
about what we are going to do in the
future or like the soon feature the rule
is checklist and yeah if you have an app
using GPS it would be great if you could
like release it here because it's the
app is open source and it SS I'll be
more than happy to when releasing the
ipfs to go and try to run your tests or
even just like open an issue on your
project to say hey we are going to
create a new version of just a bit as
soon you might want to try it before so
that you know what you need to migrate
and yeah it's more of a maintenance
release like if it includes a lot of bug
fixes and it like brings the newly peep
here and yes actually that's it great
thank you
any comments questions all right go
check it out
coming soon to NPM ok oh sorry I had
some items myself so the first one is
essentially call for help when we ported
the biggest story from go to JavaScript
we essentially reimplemented the same
interfaces for query that go implement
now header has pointed out that those
interfaces are making because they're
basically most part functions callback
like functions that you pass in make it
very hard to actually optimize heavily
if you would implement data stores for
something like this equals store is for
a sequel database so
the question Q becomes how to move
forward with this and how we can ensure
that still keeping all necessary
functionality that we need and might be
still maybe you be able to change the
interfaces in a way that it is easier
for implementers to make these
performant when computing data source so
there's a bunch of comments on that
issue that I linked there please feel
free to go there I will also especially
like to hear from the NGO side of things
because I believe it makes the most
sense
if both languages decide on how to move
forward this so any background any
additional information that we can get
there would be very appreciate thank you
all right any questions three thank you
awesome
I think yeah this is awesome and I quit
at no issues I created all this API it
has kind of been like it's like I just
thought it was something be fine in 2011
so and it was designed initially for
Titan like from Python to go and from go
to Jess like something just just need to
be real like redesign to that to the
language the thing like thanks to Jess
and like it's highly dynamic one time
the second we can actually inject like
different repo instances on the fly or
on ipfs nodes creation one of the things
I talked with Pedro was the third option
of eg we have like our default data
source for the IPS repo and they offer
the primitives that like we need like
that I define on the interface but then
for applications that wants to operate
over the same data but one for example
to create a next to get my queries
faster they can inject their own data
store that also exposes those features
for that app to consume but for ipfs IP
better than even camera right because I
as long as I'd be best as those
primitives step back you looking for
defined by the spec it's fine however
the key thing here is like the spec
doesn't say these calls and not anymore
calls like the sex is you just do I have
these primitives and if it has is
primitive it's fine if you add more it
doesn't fine because it's JavaScript and
like you can add whatever you want and
and that enables cases like Club sub
room and like the live DP that literally
is building to add their indexes
happening underneath and like the very
fast queries for like making that alive
to be more interesting and still make it
work with the rest of the hypothetical
system we are bringing anything so it is
like I think to explore and I think that
like we need to do comments better and I
just like show by example because it is
strictly like it's not it's not
intuitive that oh I can inject my own
version of the storage back-end that
exposes the interpreters I want and
implements the query engine in my own
way
and like still offer the same primitives
that the rest of the ipfs what like in
secedes it started to deliver all we
need to do recommend this everyone
there's also something that I did not
pour it when my idle your initial port
because it's not fully completed yet as
far as you know go ipfs is working on
implementing configurable data stores so
that your IP FS config will contain a
field which is data storage and so this
is something we also probably want to
eventually pull in and implement all
right cool
yeah it's getting quite quite close to
them so though it will have just a data
store stack in ipfs config and if there
is no existing data storing in your we
are initializing to your packages node
to just create those data starts from
space and otherwise there will be
migration tool that will be able to
migrate between two different data store
specs
transparently so like currently we have
some speck it is just implicit and we'll
make it explicit and then allow tool to
migrate between them we are like and
this will allow like two users to tune
data stores for performance or like so
for example we have very good data store
upcoming but it probably won't work with
like congress's terabytes of data but
will work liquid like hundreds of
gigabytes so like we can make it default
but from the other side like it would be
very nice default because it's very fast
cool thank you we understood need is
something we should also keep track on
near-sacrifice said absolutely I like in
the end we just need to explain that
there are multiple options and that we
have been working all them and then like
shell what are the metrics that we are
like trying to optimize for an Indian
like it's a waste of like names of the
data storage videos we like read like
capacity to like you know maturity
maturity of the accommodation itself
performance for a larger set or small
other sets etc and then developers can
pick whatever you want the most
yeah that's rakul cool I just record no
very silly oh cool alright yeah so go
check out these issues about datastore
it's pretty cool so and help us make
them better also please post any use
cases you would have for data storage
maybe in that issue because that also
will help they find api's in terms of
what we need going forward
alright so but one more issue for you
AGA the build tool that we using in the
jeaious ecosystem to build by PFS and
the p2p things is getting a new boom
it's coming
soon well as soon as all the bugs are
fixed and the features implement it is
going to remove gulp which is going to
make a lot of people happy I believe and
it's going to be mostly a drop-in
replacement there will be a little
migrations here and there if you rely on
sure things will hopefully just make it
a video if you're maintaining a module
yeah also the with what is already done
is the Linton configuration is now
shared this link config which is
published champion so if you want to
reuse that you can just install it there
a click send it and ipfs / yes then -
config - each year I believe yes thank
you
that's awesome I cannot wait this way I
will also help of things like help like
help swag and will actually tell you
what's happening so it's going to be
nice yeah absolutely I guess like Age
year has been super super useful
throughout the entire projects like
fraud all the JavaScript repos it is
yeah like he just needed this crap like
this polish okay for a while I know it
is finally getting it so super excited
yeah alright the read believe you have
another item for us OPSEC okay yeah
so plus item on the agenda today by the
way I think like some people that demos
for today I don't see the method on the
agenda maybe I'm wrong just checking if
you have a demo listed now so OPSEC
operational security we have been
chatting over like we had a conversation
going on for quite some time we had the
opportunity to discuss it in some issues
sometimes we also at that discussion
here at the LMS and essentially it's
like making sure that we don't open the
room to do any mistakes with regards or
like shipping codes into production
after our defense gets more and more
used by there is more people like
putting it in production people like
experimenting with it installing it in
their own machine so that we start like
we need to be extra careful with what
gets merged into master what gets
release and so on and so we have been
like trying to figure out what are the
best strategies to make sure that we
enable everyone in the community to
contribute to these projects while not
getting into a state where like everyone
has admin permission to every single
ripple and can do like every single
thing that they want right yet
unfortunately let us roll back a lot of
these things that's all it's not a
person control system but but by there
is some admin tasks that cannot be
rolled back and there is a lot of
distress that can be caused by pushing
the wrong code at the wrong time and so
we started to see alternatives to make
sure that this works well and one of
them is that now we dub for example
enables as organization owners to set
default option that says everyone in
this organization that has write access
to a ripple should have two-factor
authentication at all it is a simple
step it is a very powerful security step
like it essentially ensures that like
your account cannot like be compromised
by brute force attack for a it's very
easy to set up you just like annoying
because like setting that up without
selling the entire community might mean
that like some people receive some weird
emails from Goodell saying now you don't
have permission to write this repo
anymore because that option was set up
so we need to make sure everyone
understands that we are thinking about
it and that the everyone else ends when
we turn that option on I think like the
best is just like as usual to open an
issue and I raise this this concern and
this option and make sure that like
everyone that has an opinion can voice
it before him otherwise it might be just
better to enable
the other thing and I know ours is
working on this is we have like teams
for organization like the JavaScript
team they go team
some people like work across multiple
teams and sometimes like saying language
- team is not the best way to organize
people but so far it has been the
easiest way to get a clear perspective
or like who is working on what is ok
this person is all know JavaScript team
so they have access to the JavaScript
peoples we have been discussing the idea
like once a person is not active
contributing to code like daily for
three to six months to consider like
reducing the permissions of that person
to something like read access instead of
like having the right access to many
other ripples just as a security measure
something that can be again bumped up as
soon as the person wants to go through
it again
but just to make sure again that no one
gets account colonized in the future we
can switch a person from a Java Script
team to a contributor scheme which means
you you still you are still part of York
you still keep receiving the same
notifications you can still subscribe to
other repos in the same way that you are
subscribing you just like lose the the
right permission to some of those repos
for the time while you're not going to
being it seems like a sane approach and
like a clear one
sometimes it's disinformation if it's
not well communicated can likely to some
very sensitive conversations so we are
just now preparing everything to do
those roll those up it kuba yep some
thoughts on this yes
convinced device but the default one you
type it again I'll write access to
deploy you're stretching to watch the
repo and when you those the right access
fears are stopping to watch the repo
which will be quite annoying for some
people especially if they are like in my
PJs subscribe to all the ripples because
and they gain the right access and when
the right access is revoked they won't
be watching those repos anymore but it
can be solved with two links so like LR
on those things the two link is the most
important thing yeah absolutely and
probably like I would guess that like we
are not only open source project that
that's these kind of questions probably
there is already like other services
that extend github to have this kind of
user management models right now we are
just in this situation where like
sometimes the way to add someone to have
push a push access to repo was adding
them to an admin repo and in minting
which would give them admin permissions
to every single people and there is not
like a like a sane secure safe way to
actually distribute permissions so what
we might do like in the following weeks
is reduced people like change people to
like take people out of the admin team
and I put them on like contributor teams
like JavaScript team go team and so on
and then once we find the tooling or
once we develop the tooling then I get a
more clean process of understanding
without coding for six months sending an
email say hey I was going like notifying
we are going to like remove the right
permissions and then do that cool effect
nothing important to do before reducing
someone's admin permissions is to make
sure that we added like in process of
removing keys and permissions that are
adding his him to like the language
specific team he doesn't lose access to
multiple vehicles that are currently not
in the team which is like the state of
of multiple vehicles right now yeah
that's the sofrito just like answering
working together that's like some of the
things I had done this weekend was
making sure that like every go - or Jess
- they want the JavaScript or the go
team
so that's like if we do that we know
that those contributors don't close
access pre oh yeah one thing I want to
now the first thing is I believe it
would be good we we have a list of who
is right access losing the app team etc
we go to open an issue for permission
changes and tag all the users that will
be affected by the change I don't know a
couple of days you like send out a
message like look this is going to be
the change don't be alarmed this is
going to help me if please comment here
if there's some problem with that the
other thing is in addition to the admin
Commission change probably good we
should also probably safer to enabling
protected branches by default for master
such that push to Masters and the
allowed for admins once and only once CI
is passing there's some very nice checks
you can you can enable which even force
on admins to adhere to them so that for
example if you're in admin because you
have to manage it
you still can't merge unless C is
passing unless you go to the settings
remove the protection which Sam and you
always can be right but so that you
don't accidentally image stuff that that
shouldn't have image and you can also
enforce at least one could review
acceptance for example so at least four
major repos I believe this this should
be something we should add going forward
I'm sorry the no-go ipfs main repo has
some brand contention I do already but
pretty sure that no yes yes don't go
ahead give us it like mice perfection
makes mason mainly in marriage and push
protections but problems of CISC ice
like the file randomly project
Jessica APIs also has that but I think
it's kind of like lie to ourselves
saying oh just a business has that we
are protected it and like GS mu P other
doesn't have and like it is it is part
of the symmetry right like it is the
same code that get shipped like if we do
for one you have to do for all of them
and I wonder like I wonder if we try
that and say okay I just like do master
branch protection like everyone has to
review at least once the TI might be bro
as Cooper said because like sometimes CI
acts weirdly and changes without us
knowing like we don't control it if it
was our CI to be equal so we can start
with our CI we could exercise like
protection for and preview requirement
like if we turn that on today for all
the repos and I did good deal give it a
trial period of like two months
let's see what would be the pinpoints
there like if they was going like if
there happens to be a pain point we
might just experience like a really good
transition and if it's super painful if
someone is like screams hang on my god I
cannot compute anymore because like we
protected a syringe then we have to
solve that situation if that happens
this way i we get to try it and we get
to mess it up what let's let's move it
to any share and discuss there like we
can we can then we can first thing is go
something and then gain opinion of
others also people that are not in the
school that's good alright so okay thank
you David for Polly security things all
right I anybody have any agenda items
that they want to talk about or we are
anybody remembered something well we can
plug that there will be a demo of a lot
of this data
rescue stuff the data together stuff
we've been working on but it won't be
this week but we have some people on the
call today who have been working on it
so you can let them say hello
give me guys 60 friend and then Don I
will welcome also I would add a little
bit on the SQL data source stuff we've
been working on some work on the go side
of that the jump in on that issue in
forward to contributing cool thank you
alright do we have any demos done today
anybody
nobody alright I guess we have to we
have made a nose last week so yeah it
seems like this the demo is the best
time of their like scheduled like we
invite someone to give a demo and they
have like a week or two to prepare they
like gives or Emma it seems to go well I
mean having phase for people to show
like I hate here's something I worked on
this week is good I hope I'll have a
demo next week but not today yet yeah I
think there will be two demos next week
because there were two demos scheduled
for this week that code before sorry
next week we will have something for
achieving an IPSS uma vez has like a ton
of work on the resulting of the
different objects are actually like
literally that was like one of them and
I know like a lot I was working till
2:00 a.m. yesterday very much already
Japan was presenting today next week it
goes exactly nice yeah like I think that
the demos also like remind people of
like previewing all things are
integrated like the last time I said
this way last week and the demo that we
were going to add this this week and now
got postponed to next week already
review like some some issues that people
are solving because they're to a demo so
I I guess that's good like it's good at
like we we keep the ball rolling and
like we keep inviting people because it
helps for our people that don't want to
try those those tools to to make sure
that like they can ask for run them run
it by themselves
all right thank you everyone believe
that concludes our agenda I'll stop
recording them